.\"
.\" $Id: cloginrc.5 2139 2010-02-10 19:29:27Z heas $
.\"
.hys 50
.TH "cloginrc" "5" "9 February 2009"
.SH NAME
 \.cloginrc \- clogin configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B .cloginrc
contains configuration information for
.BR alogin (1),
.BR blogin (1),
.BR clogin (1),
.BR elogin (1),
.BR flogin (1),
.BR hlogin (1),
.BR htlogin (1),
.BR jlogin (1),
.BR nlogin (1),
.BR nslogin (1),
.BR rivlogin (1),
and
.BR tntlogin (1),
such as usernames, passwords, ssh encryption type, etc., and is read at
run-time.
.PP
Each line contains either white-space (blank line), a comment which begins
with the comment character '#' and may be preceded by white-space, or one
of the directives listed below.
.PP
Each line containing a directive is of the form:
.PP
.in +1i
.nf
add <directive> <hostname glob> {<value>} [{<value>} ...]
.sp
or
.sp
include {<file>}
.fi
.in -1i
.PP
Note: the braces ({}) surrounding the values is significant when the values
include TCL meta-characters.  Best common practice is to always enclose the
values in braces.  If a value includes a (left or right) brace or space
character, it must be backslash-escaped, as in:
.PP
.in +1i
.nf
add user <hostname glob> {foo\\}bar}
add user <hostname glob> {foo\\ bar}
.fi
.in -1i
.PP
As
.B .cloginrc
is searched for a directive matching a hostname, it is always the first
matching instance of a directive, one whose hostname glob expression matches
the hostname, which is used.  For example; looking up the "password"
directive for hostname foo in a
.B .cloginrc
file containing
.sp
.in +1i
.nf
add password *   {bar} {table}
add password foo {bar} {table}
.fi
.in -1i
.sp
would return the first line, even though the second is an exact match.
.PP
.B .cloginrc
is expected to exist in the user's home directory and
must not be readable, writable, or executable by "others".
.B .cloginrc
should be
mode 0600, or 0640 if it is to be shared with other users who are members
of the same unix group.  See
.BR chgrp (1)
and
.BR chmod (1)
for more information on ownership and file modes.
.SH DIRECTIVES
The accepted directives are (alphabetically):
.PP
.\"
.TP
.B add autoenable <router name glob> {[01]}
When using locally defined usernames or AAA, it is possible to have a login
which is automatically enabled.  This is, that user has enable privileges
without the need to execute the enable command.  The router's prompt is
different for enabled mode, ending with a # rather than a >.
.sp
Example: add autoenable * {1}
.sp
Default: 0
.sp
zero, meaning that
the user is not automatically enabled and 
.IR clogin
should execute the enable command to gain enable privileges, unless
negated by the noenable directive or \-noenable command\-line option.
.sp
Also see the
.B noenable
directive.
.\"
.TP
.B add cyphertype <router name glob> {<ssh encryption type>}
cyphertype defines which encryption algorithm is used with ssh.  A device
may not support the type ssh uses by default.  See
.BR ssh (1)'s\c
 \-c option for details.
.sp
Default: {3des}
.\"
.TP
.B add enableprompt <router name glob> {"<enable prompt>"}
When using AAA with a Cisco router or switch, it is possible to redefine the
prompt the device presents to the user for the enable password.  enableprompt
may be used to adjust the prompt that
.IR clogin
should look for when trying to login.  Note that enableprompt can be a Tcl
style regular expression.
.sp
Example: add enableprompt rc*.example.net {"\\[Ee]nter\\ the\\ enable\\ password:"}
.sp
Default: "\\[Pp]assword:"
.\"
.TP
.B add enauser <router name glob> {<username>}
This is only needed if a device prompts for a username when gaining
enable privileges and where this username is different from that defined
by or the default of the user directive.
.\"
.TP
.B add identity <router name glob> {<ssh identity file path>}
May be used to specify an alternate identity file for use with ssh(1).
See ssh's \-i option for details.
.sp
Default: your default identity file.  see ssh(1).
.\"
.TP
.B add method <router name glob> {ssh} [{...}]
Defines, in order, the connection methods to use for a device from the
set {ssh, telnet, rsh}.  Method telnet may have a suffix, indicating an
alternate TCP port, of the form ":port".
.sp
Note: Different versions of telnet treat the specification of a
port differently.  In particular, BSD derived telnets do not do
option negotiation when a port is given.  Some devices, Extreme
switches for example, have undesirable telnet default options such
as linemode.  In the BSD case, to enable option negotiation when
specifying a port the method should be "{telnet:\-23}" or you should
add "mode character" to .telnetrc.  See
.BR telnet (1)
for more information on telnet command-line syntax, telnet options,
and .telnetrc.
.sp
Example: add method * {ssh} {telnet:\-3000} {rsh}
.sp
Which would cause
.IR clogin
to first attempt an ssh connection to the device and if that were
to fail with connection refused, a telnet connection to port 3000
would be tried, and then a rsh connection.
.sp
Note that not all platforms support all of these connection methods.
.sp
Default: {telnet} {ssh}
.\"
.TP
.B add noenable <router name glob> {1}
.IR clogin
will not try to gain enable privileges when noenable is matched for a
device.  This is equivalent to
.IR "clogin" 's
\-noenable command-line option.
.sp
Note that this directive is meaningless for
.BR jlogin (1),
.BR nlogin (1)
and
.BR clogin (1)
[for Extreme]
which do not have the concept of "enabled" and/or no way to elevate
privleges once logged in; a user either has the necessary privleges or
doesn't.
.\"
.TP
.B add passphrase <router name glob> {"<SSH passphrase>"}
Specify the SSH passphrase.  Note that this may be particular to an
.B identity
directive.  The passphrase will default to the
.B password
for the given router.
.sp
Example: add passphrase rc*.example.net {the\\ bird\\ goes\\ tweet}
.\"
.TP
.B add passprompt <router name glob> {"<password prompt>"}
When using AAA with a Cisco router or switch, it is possible to redefine the
prompt the device presents to the user for the password.  passprompt may be
used to adjust the prompt that
.IR clogin
should look for when trying to login.  Note that passprompt can be a Tcl
style regular expression.
.sp
Example: add passprompt rc*.example.net {"\\[Ee]nter\\ the\\ password:"}
.sp
Default: "(\\[Pp]assword|passwd):"
.\"
.TP
.B add password <router name glob> {<vty passwd>} [{<enable passwd>}]
Specifies a vty password, that which is prompted for upon the connection
to the router.  The last argument is the enable password and need not be
specified if the device also has a matching noenable or autoenable
directive or the corresponding command-line options are used.
.\"
.TP
.B add sshcmd <router name glob> {<ssh>}
<ssh> is the name of the ssh executable.  OpenSSH uses a command-line
option to specify the protocol version, but other implementations use
a separate binary such as "ssh1".
.B sshcmd
allows this to be adjusted as necessary for the local environment.
.sp
Default: ssh
.\"
.TP
.B add timeout <router name glob> {<seconds>}
Time in seconds that the login script will wait for input from the device
before timeout.
.sp
Default: device dependent
.\"
.\" .TP
.\" .B add rc <router name glob> {<cmd;cmd>}
.\" rc is used to specifies a command that will be run by
.\" .IR clogin
.\" immediately after logging into the device.  Multiple commands may be
.\" specified by separating them with semi-colons (;).  The command must
.\" not be one which expects additional input from the user, such as 'copy
.\" rcp startup-config' on a Cisco.
.\" .sp
.\" Example: add rc *.domain.net {terminal monitor;show version}
.\"
.TP
.B add user <router name glob> {<username>}
Specifies a username
.IR clogin
should use if or when prompted for one.
.sp
Default: $USER (or $LOGNAME), i.e.: your Unix username.
.\"
.TP
.B add userpassword <router name glob> {<user password>}
Specifies a password to be associated with a user, if different from that
defined with the password directive.
.\"
.TP
.B add userprompt <router name glob> {"<username prompt>"}
When using AAA with a Cisco router or switch, it is possible to redefine the
prompt the device presents to the user for the username.  userprompt may be
used to adjust the prompt that
.IR clogin
should look for when trying to login.  Note that userprompt can be a Tcl
style regular expression.
.sp
Example: add userprompt rc*.example.net {"\\[Ee]nter\\ your\\ username:"}
.sp
Default: "(Username|login|user name):"
.\"
.TP
.B include {<file>}
<file> is the pathname of an additional
.B .cloginrc
file to include at that point.  It is evaluated immediately.  That is
important with regard to the order of matching hostnames for a given
directive, as mentioned above.  This is useful if you have your own
.B .cloginrc
plus an additional
.B .cloginrc
file that is shared among a group of folks.
.sp
If <file> is not a full pathname, $HOME/ will be prepended.
.sp
Example: include {.cloginrc.group}
.El
.SH FILES
.br
.nf
.\" set tabstop to longest possible filename, plus a wee bit
.ta \w'xHOME/xcloginrc  'u
\fI$HOME/.cloginrc\fR               Configuration file described here.
.\"
\fIshare/rancid/cloginrc.sample\fR  A sample \fB.cloginrc\fR.
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.B .cloginrc
is interpreted directly by Tcl, so its syntax follows that of Tcl.  Errors
may produce quite unexpected results.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clogin (1),
.BR glob (3),
.BR tclsh (1)
