.\"
.hys 50
.TH "rancid-run" "1" "5 October 2006"
.SH NAME
rancid-run \- run rancid for each of the groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rancid-run
[\fB\-V\fR] [\c
.BI \-f\ \c
rancid.conf]\ \c
[\c
.BI \-f\ \c
rancid.conf]\ \c
[\c
.BI \-m\ \c
mail_rcpt]\ \c
[\c
.BI \-r\ \c
device_name]\ \c
[group [group ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rancid-run
is a
.IR sh (1)
script to run
.IR rancid (1)
for a set of rancid group(s).
.PP
.B rancid-run
reads
.BR rancid.conf (5)
to configure itself, then uses
.IR control_rancid (1)
to run
.IR rancid (1)
for each rancid group.  The set of rancid groups can either be provided
as command-line arguments or via the
.I LIST_OF_GROUPS
variable in
.BR rancid.conf (5),
if the group argument is omitted.
.PP
A lock file is maintained per-group to prevent simultaneous runs for a given
group by
.IR rancid-run (1).
The lock file will be named
.IR .<group>.run.lock
and will be located in
.IR $TMPDIR
(see below).
.PP
A log file is produced under
.IR $LOGDIR/logs
for each rancid group processed.  The file name will be <group>.YYYYMMDD.HHMMSS
(year month day . hour minute second).
.PP
.B rancid-run
is normally used to run rancid from
.BR cron (8).
For example:
.PP
.in +1i
.nf
0 * * * *      /usr/local/rancid/bin/rancid-run
.fi
.in -1i
.\"
.PP
.\"
The command-line options are as follows:
.TP
.B \-V
Prints package name and version strings.
.TP
.B \-f rancid.conf
Specify an alternate configuration file.
.TP
.B \-m mail_rcpt
Specify the recipient of diff mail, which is normally rancid-<group>.  The
argument may be a single address, multiple comma separated addresses, or
.B \-m
may be specified multiple times.
.\"
.TP
.B \-r device_name
Run rancid for a single device,
.IR device_name .
.IR device_name
should be name, as it appears in a group's router.db.  The device must be
marked "up".  If a group is not specified on the command-line, rancid will
be run against any group in which the device_name appears.
.sp
The 
.B \-r
option alters the subject line of the diff mail.  It will begin
with <group name>/<device name> rather than just the group name alone.
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B rancid-run
utilizes the following environment variables from
.BR rancid.conf (5).
.\"
.TP
.B BASEDIR
Location of group directories, etc.  This is set to the "localstatedir"
by the configure script at installation time.
.\"
.TP
.B LIST_OF_GROUPS
List of rancid groups to collect.
.\"
.TP
.B PATH
Search path for utilities.
.\"
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Directory to hold temporary and lock files.
.SH ERRORS
If rancid fails to run or collect a device's configuration, the particular
group's log file (mentioned above) should be consulted.  Any errors produced
by the revision control system (CVS or Subversion) or any of the rancid
scripts should be included there, whether they be a botched cvs tree, login
authentication failure, rancid configuration error, etc.
If the log file produces no clues, the next debugging step should be run the
commands manually.  For example, can the user who runs rancid login to the
device with 'clogin hostname', and so on.
.BR 
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $BASEDIR/etc/rancid.conf
.B rancid-run
configuration file.
.El
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR control_rancid (1),
.BR rancid.conf (5),
.BR router.db (5)
