.\"
.hys 50
.TH "rancid" "1" "12 February 2014"
.SH NAME
rancid \- Cisco configuration filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rancid
[\fB\-dlCV\fP]
[\fB\-t device_type\fP]
(\fB\-f\fP filename | hostname)
.sp
.B rancid
[\fB\-dhlCV\fP]
\fB\-t device_type\fP
(\fB\-f\fP filename | hostname)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rancid
is a collection of 
.BR perl (1)
scripts which uses the login scripts (see
.BR clogin (1))
to login to a device, execute commands to display the configuration, etc,
then filters the output for formatting, security, and so on.
.B rancid's
product is a file with the name of it's last argument plus the suffix .new.
For example,
.IR hostname.new .
.PP
.B rancid
is also a
.BR perl (1)
script that operates much like
.B rancid,
but is generic and will eventually obsolete the
.B rancid
script.
It uses the device_type specified with the -t option to look-up a device
description that defines what it does to collect and process device
information.
.PP
There are scripts complementary to
.B rancid
for other platforms and/or manufacturers
that are supported by
.BR rancid (1).
Briefly, these are:
.sp
.TP 15
.B agmrancid
Cisco Anomaly Guard Module (AGM)
.TP 15
.B anrancid
Arbor Networks appliances
.TP 15
.B arancid
Alteon WebOS switches
.TP 15
.B arrancid
Arista Networks devices
.TP
.B brancid
Bay Networks (nortel)
.TP
.B cat5rancid
Cisco catalyst switches
.TP
.B cssrancid
Cisco content services switches
.TP
.B erancid
ADC-kentrox EZ-T3 mux
.TP
.B f10rancid
Force10
.TP
.B f5rancid
F5 BigIPs
.TP
.B fnrancid
Fortinet Firewalls
.TP
.B rancid
The generic rancid script; supporting Cisco IOS, Cisco IOS-XR, Dell switches,
Compass EOS, and Juniper JUNOS.
It uses the device O/S modules for parsing routines.
See
.BR rancid (3)
for details.
.TP
.B hrancid
HP Procurve Switches
.TP
.B htranicd
Hitachi Routers
.TP
.B jerancid
Juniper Networks E-series
.TP
.B jrancid
Juniper Networks
.TP
.B mrancid
MRTd
.TP
.B mtrancid
Mikrotik routesrs
.TP
.B nrancid
Netscreen firewalls
.TP
.B nsrancid
Netscaler
.TP
.B nxrancid
Cisco Nexus boxes
.TP
.B prancid
Procket Networks
.TP
.B rivrancid
Riverstone
.TP
.B rrancid
Redback
.TP
.B srancid
SMC switch (some Dell OEMs)
.TP
.B trancid
Netopia sDSL/T1 routers
.TP
.B tntrancid
Lucent TNT
.TP
.B xirancid
Xirrus arrays
.TP
.B xrancid
Extreme switches
.TP
.B xrrancid
Cisco IOS-XR boxes
.TP
.B zrancid
Zebra routing software
.PP
The command-line options are as follows:
.TP
.B \-C
Prints the login command that would be used to collect data from the device.
.\"
.TP
.B \-V
Prints package name and version strings.
.\"
.TP
.B \-d
Display debugging information.
.\"
.TP
.B \-h
Display a usage line and exit.
.\"
.TP
.B \-l
Display somewhat less debugging information.
.\"
.TP
.B \-t
Device type, of the given host or file, that is defined in
.B rancid.types.base
or
.B rancid.types.conf .
.\"
.TP
.B \-f
.B rancid
should interpret the next argument as a filename which contains the
output it would normally collect from the device (
.I hostname\c
) with
.IR clogin (1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR control_rancid (1),
.BR clogin (1),
.BR rancid.conf (5),
.BR rancid.types.conf (5),
.BR rancid (3)
.\"
.SH "CAVEATS"
Cisco IOS offers a DHCP server that maintains a text database which can be
stored remotely or on local storage.
If stored locally, the file changes constantly and causes constant diffs
from rancid.
If this file's name ('ip dhcp database') matches the regex
dhcp_[^[:space:].]\.txt, it will be filtered.
.Pp
For Catalyst switches running CatOS, type
.B cat5,
the prompt must end with '>'.
.BR clogin (1)
looks for '>' to determine when a login is successful.  For example:
.sp
.in +1i
.nf
cat5k>
cat5k> enable
Password: 
cat5k> (enable) 
.fi
.in -1i
.PP
.B rancid
works on Cisco Catalyst 1900 series switches that are running Enterprise
Edition software.  This software provides a menu at connection time that
allows a command line interface to be used by entering 'K' at the prompt.
