.\"
.hys 50
.TH "rancid-cvs" "1" "18 December 2014"
.TH "rancid-cvs" "1" "17 December 2014"
.SH NAME
rancid-cvs \- initialize CVS, Subversion or git and rancid group files and directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rancid-cvs
[\fB\-V\fR] [\c
.BI \-f\ \c
config_file]\ \c
[group [group ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rancid-cvs
creates the directories and
.BR router.db (5)
for each rancid group and handles the revision control system (CVS,
Subversion or git) set-up in the location defined by the
.I CVSROOT
in
.BR rancid.conf (5).
It must be run after the initial installation and whenever a rancid group is
added.
.\"
If
.I CVSROOT
is a URL,
.B rancid-cvs
will not initialize the repository, the user must do this themselves.
.\"
.PP
.B rancid-cvs
reads
.BR rancid.conf (5)
to configure itself, then proceeds with the initialization.
First of the CVS, Subversion or git repository, if necessary, and then for
each of the rancid groups listed on the command-line or those in the variable
.I LIST_OF_GROUPS
from
.BR rancid.conf (5),
if the argument is omitted.
.\"
.PP
Running
.B rancid-cvs
for groups which already exist will not cause problems.  If the group's
directory already exists, the import into the revision control system
will be skipped, and if it's
.BR router.db (5)
already exists, it will not be altered.
.PP
.\"
The command-line options are as follows:
.TP
.B \-V
Prints package name and version strings.
.TP
.B \-f group_config_file
Specify an alternative rancid.conf.  The global rancid.conf file is read by
.B rancid-run.
.\"
.PP
The best method for adding groups is by adding the group name to
.I LIST_OF_GROUPS
in
.BR rancid.conf (5),
then run
.B rancid-cvs.
.\" This line is intentionally bolded.
.B Do not create the directories manually, allow rancid-cvs to do it.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cvs (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR rancid.conf (5),
.BR router.db (5),
.BR svn (1)
.\"
.SH "CAVEATS"
In the case of git, the groups are not exactly imported into the repository,
rather a new repository is created for it, due to the way that git handles,
what it calls, sparse checkouts.
Instead, each group is a separate repository under the
.B CVSROOT
directory.
