.\"
.\" $Id: rancid_intro.1 2101 2009-07-14 19:19:51Z heas $
.\"
.hys 50
.TH "rancid_intro" "1" "14 july 2009"
.SH NAME
rancid_intro \- introduction to the Really Awesome New Cisco confIg Differ
.SH INTRODUCTION
.B rancid
is really more than just a Cisco configuration differ.  It handles several
different device's configurations; currently including
Alteon,
Arista,
Bay Networks (Nortel),
Cisco,
Extreme,
F5 BigIP,
Force10,
Fortinet,
Foundry,
HP Procurve switches,
Hitachi,
Juniper Routers and edge (ERX) routers,
Lucent TNT,
MRTd daemon,
Netscalar load balancers,
Netscreen firewalls,
Procket,
Redback,
SMC switches,
Zebra routing software,
and the ADC-Kentrox EZ-T3 mux.
.PP
.B rancid
uses an expect script to login to each of a list of devices and run a set of
commands for that device-type and collects the output.  The output
is run through some filtering to summarize, reformat, and/or snip
unwanted or security related data such as chassis temperature and easily
reverse-able passwords.
.PP
Named after the device's name in the group's configuration file (\c
.IR router.db ),
the resulting files are saved in the directory <group>/configs.  Except for
the data filtered from the configuration file for security reasons, such as
reversable passwords, these files are suitable for loading directly to restore
a lost configuration.  See
.BR rancid.conf (5)
for more information on <group>s.
.PP
After filtering, a uni-diff (see 
.BR diff (1))
of the result is produced
for each of the devices in a group against that of the previous run of
.B rancid
and is e-mailed to that group's mail list, "rancid-<group>".  This e-mail
will also include any differences of the device list in the group's
configuration file,
.IR "router.db".
.PP
Lastly, all the updated files are checked into the revision control system
(CVS or Subversion).
.PP
Additional utilities, including a looking glass, come with rancid.  See
rancid's share directory (
.IR share/rancid ).
.SH "EXAMPLE E-MAIL"
Below is a sample of a uni-diff produced from the group "shrubbery"
for the device named dfw.shrubbery.net, which happens to be a Cisco GSR.
.PP
.nf
From: rancid 
To: rancid-shrubbery@shrubbery.net
Subject: shrubbery router config diffs
Precedence: bulk
  
Index: configs/dfw.shrubbery.net
===================================================================
retrieving revision 1.144
diff -u -4 -r1.144 dfw.shrubbery.net
@@ -57,14 +57,8 @@
  !Slot 2/MBUS: hvers 1.1
  !Slot 2/MBUS: software 01.36 (RAM) (ROM version is 01.33)
  !Slot 2/MBUS: 128 Mbytes DRAM, 16384 Kbytes SDRAM
  !
- !Slot 6: 1 Port Gigabit Ethernet
- !Slot 6/PCA: part 73-3302-03 rev C0 ver 3, serial CAB031216OL
- !Slot 6/PCA: hvers 1.1
- !Slot 6/MBUS: part 73-2146-07 rev B0 dev 0, serial CAB031112SB
- !Slot 6/MBUS: hvers 1.2
- !Slot 6/MBUS: software 01.36 (RAM) (ROM version is 01.33)
  !Slot 7: Route Processor
  !Slot 7/PCA: part 73-2170-03 rev B0 ver 3, serial CAB024901SI
  !Slot 7/PCA: hvers 1.4
  !Slot 7/MBUS: part 73-2146-06 rev A0 dev 0, serial CAB02060044
.fi
.PP
In this example, we see that a Gigabit Ethernet linecard was removed
from slot 6.  However, since this data is collected from "show" commands on
the router, it could just as easily be that the card crashed so the RP
can not communicate with it to collect information.
.SH "GETTING STARTED"
Installation instructions are included in the distribution's top-level
directory in the README file (which will be installed in share/rancid).
Once the installation is complete, start by reading the man pages listed
below or follow the basic instructions included in the README file.
.PP
See http://www.shrubbery.net/rancid for information on new versions,
mail lists, etc.
.SH "ADDING NEW GROUPS"
Follow this procedure for adding new groups:
.TP
o
Update the
.IR LIST_OF_GROUPS
variable in
.IR etc/rancid.conf
(see
.BR rancid.conf (5)).
.TP
o
Run
.BR rancid-cvs (1).
.TP
o
Update the system's mail aliases file
.IR /etc/aliases
(see 
.BR rancid.conf (5)).
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clogin (1),
.BR cloginrc (5),
.BR control_rancid (1),
.BR lg_intro (1),
.BR rancid (1),
.BR rancid-run (1),
.BR rancid.conf (5),
.BR router.db (5)
