.\"
.hys 50
.TH "router.db" "5" "24 April 2011"
.SH NAME
router.db \- rancid group configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B router.db
contains information for devices which are members of a rancid group.
.IR control_rancid (1)
reads this file to compile a list of devices which it should collect.
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
One device is listed per-line, where the syntax is:
.PP
.in +1i
.nf
<device_name>:<device_type>:<state>[:comments]
.fi
.in -1i
.PP
For example:
.in +1i
.nf
scooby.shrubbery.net:cisco:up
.fi
.in -1i
.PP
.\"
The fields are as follows:
.TP
.B <device_name>
The name of the device, which must resolve via
.I gethostbyname\c
, used as the argument to
.IR telnet (1),
.IR rsh (1),
or
.IR ssh (1),
to connect to the device.  Once converted to lower-case, this
also becomes the name of the file used to store the configuration under
\fI$BASEDIR/<group>/configs\fR.
.sp
Experience has shown that using the device's FQDN (Fully Qualified
Domain Name) works best, as in the example above.
.\"
.TP
.B <device_type>
The type of device from the set:
.RS 8n
.TP
.ID 15n
.B agm
A Cisco Anomaly Guard Module (aka Riverhead).
Suspect that at some point the UI will become more cisco-like and it
can be merged with the IOS rancid module.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B alteon
An Alteon WebOS switches.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B arista
An Arista Networks device.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B avocent
An Avocent Cyclades console server.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B baynet
A Bay Networks router.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B cat5
A Cisco catalyst series 5000 and 4000 switches (i.e.: running the catalyst OS,
not IOS).
.TP
.ID 15n
.B cisco
A Cisco router, PIX, or switch such as the 3500XL or 6000 running IOS (or
IOS-like) OS, but not IOS-XR.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B cisco-nx
A Cisco Nexus switch/router.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B cisco-xr
A Cisco device running IOS-XR.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B css
A Cisco content services switch.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B enterasys
An enterasys NAS.  This is currently an alias for the
.B riverstone
device type.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B erx
A Juniper E-series edge router.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B extreme
An Extreme switch.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B ezt3
An ADC-Kentrox EZ-T3 mux.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B f5
A F5 BigIP switch.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B force10
A Force10 router.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B fortigate
A Fortinet firewall.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B foundry
A Foundry router, switch, or router-switch.  This includes HP
Procurve switches that are OEMs of Foundry products, such as the
HP9304M.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B hitachi
A Hitachi router.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B hp
A HP Procurve switch such as the 2524 or 4108 procurve switches.  Also see the
.B foundry
type.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B juniper
A Juniper router.
.TP
.B mikrotik
A Mikrotik router.
.TP
.B mrtd
A host running the (Merit) MRTd daemon.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B netscalar
A Netscalar load balancer.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B netscreen
A Netscreen firewall.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B procket
A Procket router.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B redback
A Redback router, NAS, etc.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B riverstone
A Riverstone NAS or Cabletron (starting with version ~9.0.3) router.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B smc
A SMC switch (some Dell OEMs).
.TP
.ID 15n
.B tnt
A Lucent TNT.
.TP
.ID 15n
.B zebra
Zebra routing software.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.B <state>
The state is either "up", or some other arbitrary value, e.g. "down".
If the device is not marked "up" the device's configuration will not be
collected.
It is highly recommended that comments are made for 
any router not listed as up, so as to indicate the
reason a router is not to be polled, e.g.:
.sp
dial1.paris:cisco:up:
.br
core1.paris:cisco:down:in testing until 5/5/2001.
.br
core2.paris:cisco:ticketed:Ticket 6054234, 5/3/2001
.br
border1.paris:juniper:up:
.sp
The script "downreport" in util/ can be used to produce a
report of routers in router.db that are not marked "up".
.PP
.TP
.B [comments]
Freeform string to describe the current state of the router.
.PP
A ``#'' at the beginning of a line is a comment; the entire line is
ignored.
.PP
If a device is deleted from the 
.B router.db
file, then
.B rancid
will clean up by removing the device's config file from
\fI$BASEDIR/<group>/configs\fR.
The device will be removed from the revision control system.
It is possible, in most cases, to resurrect or check-out copies of
deleted device configurations.
.PP
.SH FILES
.ta \w'xBASEDIR/<group>/router.db  'u
.TP
.B $BASEDIR/<group>/router.db
Configuration file described here, where <group> is a device group name
defined in the variable
.I LIST_OF_GROUPS
within \fI$BASEDIR/etc/rancid.conf\fR.
.El
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR control_rancid (1),
.BR rancid (1),
.BR rancid.conf (5)
